### Mounting volumes in Docker

Docker volumes are a crucial feature for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers. When a container is removed, any data stored within its writable layer is also removed. Volumes provide a way to store data independently of the container's lifecycle, allowing for data persistence, sharing, and backup.

Using Windows CMD or Powershell, we can run the following code:

```
docker run -e "ACCEPT_EULA=Y" -e "MSSQL_SA_PASSWORD=YourPassword!" ^
   -p 1433:1433 --name mssql --hostname mssql ^
   -d ^
   --mount "type=bind,source=C:\YourPath\StackOverflow 2013 database,target=/var/opt/mssql/data" ^
   mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2022-latest
```

Let's dissect this code:

- `-e "ACCEPT_EULA=Y"`: Sets an environment variable ACCEPT_EULA to Y, which is required to accept the SQL Server End-User License Agreement.

- `-e "MSSQL_SA_PASSWORD=YourPassword"`: Sets the SA (System Administrator) password for the SQL Server instance. 

- `-p 1433:1433`: Maps port 1433 on your host machine to port 1433 inside the container. This is the default port for SQL Server.

- `--name mssql`: Assigns the name mssql to your container, making it easier to refer to.

- `--hostname mssql`: Sets the hostname of the container to mssql.

- `-d`: Runs the container in detached mode, that is in the background.

- `mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2022-latest`: Specifies the Docker image to use. In this case, we are using the latest SQL Server 2022 image from Microsoft Container Registry.

- `--mount "type=bind,source=$(C:\YourPath\StackOverflow 2013 database),target=/var/opt/mssql/data"`: This is explained in detail below.

#### Mounting volumes with `--mount`

The `--mount` flag specifies mounts for Docker containers. It provides more explicit and verbose syntax compared to the older -v or --volume flag, offering better clarity and control.

The syntax for `--mount` is generally:
```
--mount "type=<type>,source=<source>,target=<target>,[options]"
```

Let's break down the components of the `--mount` we have used:

- `type`: Specifies the type of mount. In this case, we use a bind mount that allows you to mount a file or directory from the host machine directly into the container. Changes made on either side are immediately reflected on the other.

- `source`: Specifies the path on the host machine that you want to mount.

    Ensure the directory specified as the source actually exists on your host machine before running the command. Docker will create it if it doesn't exist for bind mounts, but it's good practice to have it ready.

- `target`: Specifies the path inside the container where the host directory/file will be mounted.

    This is the default location where SQL Server on Linux stores its data files. By mounting your host directory to this target, any data SQL Server writes (like databases, logs, etc.) will be persisted in your `C:\YourPath\StackOverflow 2013 database` folder on the host.